Recap of Session 5

 

1)    To understand how competition can disrupt segmentation, we went back to the Perceptual Map which gave us the locations of Competitors, Company and Customers. To simplify how movements of competitors can change segmentation, we decided to simplify the perceptual map into a simple 2-D picture – with perceived quality on the X-Axis and price on the Y-Axis. Perceived quality represents the combination of all benefits from the perceptual map and thus is an “omnibus” benefit. We can now study tradeoffs between prices and qualities in a given market. So how do we do that?

 

2)    First, we placed customer segments on the map based on each segment wanting a different level of quality level at a different price. The segments can then be arrayed on a line that we called the Value Equivalence Line (VEL). The segments are represented as bars on this line with the heights denoting size. In a stable market, firms then target specific segments. However, over time, firms want to increase their profits and so target additional segments. This makes the line crowded and forces firms to differentiate from each other by taking a value advantaged position. Such a move off the line comes with a addressable customer horizon that can attract customers from other segments thereby disrupting the nature of segmentation in the market. So what does this tell us? We need to think about how our moves and those of the competition influence the segments before actually take a value advantaged position. It also allows us to evaluate actions such as line extensions, etc. As we saw, line extensions by “high-end” firms at the lower end that shrink the quality gap while maintaining a sizable price gap can accelerate cannibalization. One path to follow here would be to invest in your high end product while introducing a lower-end product to maintain the quality gap and provide a reason for customers to stick to the high-end product.

 

3)    Next, we discussed the Barco case. First, the group did a fantastic job laying out all the issues and providing two suggested courses of action for the "board" to chew on. Barco needs to make product, pricing and distribution-related decisions in the light of the Sony move to enter the high end at a low price. Continuing with the current product may not be a good idea since (i) they already had a better product in the BG400 and (ii) they would be giving up their coveted leadership position. That coupled with having to battle a mass market firm that can lower prices implies that Barco needs to push the innovation envelope in order to make money. Indeed, using the value map we see that it is very likely that Sony will price below the line, thereby crushing Barco’s margins. So Barco decided to take the back-to-the-wall approach and go for the BG800. Having Sony as a supplier brings up the issue of developing new suppliers; focusing on customer needs and the core capability of electronics emphasizes the need to allow customers to upgrade just the electronics while retaining the other elements of the projector. In terms of pricing, the wait and watch approach was taken while allowing the channel to selectively respond to the Sony entry (price-wise and offering the BG400 in lieu of the discontinued BD700). The last point we made here is that it is important to look at the case from the perspective of Sony who probably felt threatened by Barco’s assault on its main Data segment via the BD700.



4)   We then briefly went over the Customer Lifetime Value concept covered in the Chase case. The point here is that by measuring the CLV at various retention rates, we can get an idea of the amount to be spent on enhancing retention. Also, whether it is worthwhile paying the acquisition cost in the light of future revenues that are likely to accrue (remember Chase). Finally, it is important to build loyalty profitably. Don't go throwing money at futile customers you will likely lose money on.

